Long ago, Abraham sent his servant, Ellie Ezer,
to find a wife for his son, Isaac.
He knew God's purpose required a woman of deep faith.
But who would be willing to leave their home
and travel into the unknown?
Mother, I'm back.
Hello, my dear.
Your cousin has been looking for you.
And I'm over here.
Rebecca, can you bring this to Father?
Yeah, is he still working?
Still working.
Rebecca, I've been looking for you.
Can I come with you?
Sure.
Hello, Father.
Life inside you needed this.
Thank you.
Can I help with anything?
You can come with me to the well.
But not today.
We need your help making dinner.
Okay.
Good day.
Please.
Give me a little sip of water.
From your jar?
Drink, my lord.
I will also water your camels until they are done drinking.
Excuse me, my lord.
Please tell me, who's daughter are you?
Is there any room in your father's house for us to spend the night?
I will not eat until I have told you what I have to say.
Please, speak.
I am Abraham's servant.
And Jehovah has blessed my master very much.
Sarah, the wife of my master,
bore a son to my master after she grew old.
So my master made me swear, saying,
you will go to the house of my father, to my family.
You must take a wife for my son.
But I said to my master, what if the woman is unwilling to come?
He said to me, Jehovah will send his angel with you
and will certainly give success to your journey.
When I got to the spring today, I said, Jehovah,
the God of my master, Abraham.
If you will make my journey successful,
here I am standing at a spring.
When a young woman comes out to draw water,
I will say, please, let me drink a little water from your jar.
And she will say to me, you take a drink
and I will also draw water for your camels.
Let that woman be the one whom Jehovah has chosen
for the son of my master.
Before I was finished speaking in my heart,
there was Rebecca coming out with her jar on her shoulder.
After that, I asked her, whose daughter are you?
To which she replied the daughter of Bethul.
So I put the ring on her nose
and the bracelets on her hands.
And now tell me, if you wish to show loyal love
and faithfulness to my master.
But if not, tell me
that I may proceed one way or the other.
This is from Jehovah.
Let her become a wife to the son of your master,
just as Jehovah has spoken.
The negab is far.
When will you come back?
I can't you just stay here.
If you heard what my father said,
this is from Jehovah.
You can serve Jehovah here.
That is true.
But you know, Jehovah will bless you
in ways you can't even imagine.
We still have time together.
Let's make the most of it.
Why me?
Gather all the men, prepare the camels.
We must leave soon.
Right away.
Why are you packing?
Please send me off to my master.
Let the young woman stay with us for ten more days.
At least ten more days.
Then she can go.
Do not detain me.
Seeing that Jehovah has made my journey successful,
send me off in order that I may go to my master.
Let us call the young woman and inquire of her.
Rebecca, at least we're wants to leave right now.
Will you go with this man?
I'm willing to go.
Rebecca, our sister,
may you become thousands times ten thousand.
And let your offspring take possession of the gate
of those who hate them.
Praise Jehovah.
I'll miss you.
Rebecca did not know what lay before her.
And there is no record that she saw her family again.
She showed faith when she left the comfort of home.
Jehovah blessed her as an ancestor of the Messiah.
Her faith is worthy of our imitation.